RM-950 Release Notes 2.22.0 (#588)
percona/pmm-doc: docs/release-notes/2.22.0.md

# Percona Monitoring and Management 2.22.0

<table class="docutils field-list" frame="void" rules="none">
  <colgroup>
    <col class="field-name">
    <col class="field-body">
  </colgroup>
  <tbody valign="top">
    <tr class="field-odd field">
      <th class="field-name">Date:</th>
      <td class="field-body">September 21, 2021</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="field-even field">
      <th class="field-name">Installation:</th>
      <td class="field-body">
        <a class="reference external" href="https://www.percona.com/software/pmm/quickstart">Installing Percona Monitoring and Management</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is a free and open-source platform for managing and monitoring MySQL, MongoDB, and PostgreSQL performance.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Release Highlights:

- **DBaaS (Technical preview):**: The ability for DBaaS users to upgrade already existed Clusters with a newer version of the operator from PMM UI, without any interaction directly with K8s 
```

Reviewer: @PaulJacobs-percona, can you check this highlight, please?

Author: I recast a little. LGTM

## New Features

> - [PMM-8396](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8396): Backup Management: Retry failed scheduled backups

Reviewer 2: - [PMM-8396](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8396): Backup Management: Add an ability to specify the number of retries for Scheduled backups. Users will be able to set the maximum number of attempts to perform a scheduled backup before the operation fails.

> - [PMM-8079](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8079): DBaaS: Upgrade Operators inside Kubernetes cluster

Reviewer 2: - [PMM-8079](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8079): DBaaS: Percona Operators inside Kubernetes cluster managed by PMM can now be upgraded
- (to confirm; are the upgrades happening within PMM? if so, that should be noted.)

> - [PMM-7924](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-7924): MySQL Performance Details dashboard: Add "Performance Schema Status Monitoring" chart

Reviewer: Some  Additional text needed to get better explanation what the panel is presenting

Reviewer 2: It seems self explanatory. If someone knows they need this, it's now available. If they don't know they need it, it needs to be explained, but this is not the right place to do that. It should be in the user guide.

## Improvements

> - [PMM-8688](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8688): Backup Management: Action button "Create Backup" mislabeled

Reviewer: It's unclear from the issue  what did we do to improve this mislead

Reviewer 2: - [PMM-8688](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8688): Backup Management: When adding a new Backup, the action button now reads "Create Backup" instead of "Edit" to reflect the action happening

- [PMM-8311](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8311): Integrated Alerting: Disable edit/delete buttons for Percona-sourced Templates
- [PMM-8077](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8077): DBaaS: Show the current version of Operators used in Kubernetes

> - [PMM-8509](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8509): "Check for updates" can be disabled in Configuration->Settings->Advanced settings

Reviewer: Aren't we added a flag to force Enable this too over Env variables? 

This is for me more like: "Let Disable Update follow the standard parameter process for PMM variables. be able to specify parameter over API. env var and UI"

?.

Reviewer 2: This suggestion is very confusing. It sounds like the option to Disable Update is now present in the web GUI as well as a config file, correct? It looks like this fix is specific to the web GUI, so the parameters flags may not make much sense to the user, if that is not a new functionality.

Reviewer 3: @JiriCtvrtka ^

Reviewer 4: Fix working for UI, API params and env var. Same behavior like in case of telemetry.

@denisok I believe we missing https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8421 in release notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [PMM-8509](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8509): Management of ability to update PMM Server in the same way as this implemented to other Settings for PMM. Users can use API, UI, or docker Environment Variables to change the setting responsible for the Update process.  As with all PMM settings, the Environment Variable way have higher priority and can't be changed over API or UI 
```

Reviewer 3: yes, PMM-8421 needs to be resolved first and script should pick it up in the next round. @PaulJacobs-percona fyi.

Author: Since Roma has manually reordered items, I won't be using Jirabot to re-extract RNs. Instead I will copy/paste the missing item in the section where Jirabot would list it and let Roma shuffle it up or down.

Reviewer 3: ok, that one is fixed, please add it

Author: https://github.com/percona/pmm-doc/pull/588/files#r708133689
Suggested change above is IMO too long. Details should be moved to the ticket description.

Reviewer: In this case, this is an important change in the Set-Up process, so added here to be more visible.

- [PMM-7392](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-7392): DBaaS: Change Number of Nodes when editing Topology

## Bugs Fixed

- [PMM-8613](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8613): Backup Management: Unable to restore MySQL backup
- [PMM-8463](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8463): Backup Management: State stuck on "Pending" when creating backup with already existing name

> - [PMM-8408](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8408): DBaaS: `pmm-client` Docker image incorrectly tagged with development version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [PMM-8408](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8408): DBaaS: Wrong (development) version of PMM Client used for monitoring DB Clusters created by DBaaS
```

Reviewer 2: - [PMM-8408](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8408): DBaaS: Development version of PMM Client was used for monitoring DB Clusters created by DBaaS

> - [PMM-8613](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8613): Backup Management: Unable to restore MySQL backup
> - [PMM-8463](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8463): Backup Management: State stuck on "Pending" when creating backup with already existing name
> - [PMM-8408](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8408): DBaaS: Development version of PMM Client was used for monitoring DB Clusters created by DBaaS
> - [PMM-8584](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8584): Wrong CPU metric labels in dashboards for RDS instances
> - [PMM-8703](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8703): Custom dashboard prevents PMM Server Docker update from 2.20 to 2.21 (Thanks to Hubertus Krogmann for reporting this issue)
> - [PMM-7690](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-7690): AWS discovery and monitoring based on IAM roles is not working

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [PMM-8703](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8703): Custom dashboard prevents PMM Server Docker update from 2.20 to 2.21 (Thanks to Hubertus Krogmann for reporting this issue)
- [PMM-7690](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-7690): AWS discovery and monitoring based on IAM roles is not working
- [PMM-8613](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8613): Backup Management: Unable to restore MySQL backup
- [PMM-8463](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8463): Backup Management: State stuck on "Pending" when creating backup with already existing name
- [PMM-8408](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8408): DBaaS: Development version of PMM Client was used for monitoring DB Clusters created by DBaaS
- [PMM-8584](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-8584): Wrong CPU metric labels in dashboards for RDS instances
```

Reviewer: ^ move two important bug fixes to the top of the list of bugs
